Hengrin readers, level one, The Missing Coins by John Escott
Cop Bath is a very old city in England. It
has a beautiful abbey. A lot of people visit
the city every year. And in the summer there are
always a lot of tourists in the streets.
Heat and Carla are students in Bath. They like the
city. Heat likes looking at the
beautiful old buildings. Carla likes walking in the little streets.
She often
finds pretty little shops there and goes into them. Or
she sits with heat in a
cafe and watches the tourists. It's a Saturday in summer
and a hot afternoon.
There are a lot of tourists in the city today.
People from many countries are going into the
way from the tourists. Carla says, okay. Heat says, he
likes being with Carla. They walk
away from the abbey. After some time they are in
a little street behind the abbey. This is
pretty, Carla says. There are only two or three tourists
in this street. The shops have
small windows. Some houses have pretty little gardens. It's quiet
here but Pete and Carla
can hear music. Look, Pete says, that man is playing
a flute. Let's go and listen. They walk
across the street and watch the man. Four or five
people are listening. Why is he playing
here? Carla asks. There aren't many tourists in this street.
No, Pete says. And there are only
three or four coins in his hat. Heat and Carla
listen to the flute player. The tune is green
man's hat. Pete takes her hand. Let's go, Carla. He
says to her. Let's see the shops in the next
street. Okay, Carla says. They walk away. The flute player
watches them but his tune green
sleeves doesn't stop. He isn't a very good flute player,
Pete says. But it's a good tune.
There were only four coins in his hat, Carla says.
That's because he isn't very good, Pete says.
And he's playing in the wrong street. The tourists are
near the abbey.
They walk to the next street. They find a little
shop there. There are some old coins and stamps
in the shop window. They come from many countries. Let's
go in here, Carla says. It's an interesting
call. Go in and an old man watches them. He
is the shopkeeper. Good afternoon, he says.
Good afternoon, Carla says. Hi, Pete says. What can I
do for you? The shopkeeper says.
Can we look at the stamps? Pete asks. The shopkeeper
looks at them.
Okay, he says. Do you collect stamps? No, but I'm
going to start collecting them, Pete says.
They're interesting. Yes, they are, the shopkeeper says. Pete looks
at some stamps from Canada
and some stamps from South America. These are beautiful stamps,
he says. The shopkeeper
stands near Pete and watches him. He isn't happy, Carla
thinks. Why? We aren't going to steal stamps.
She looks at some coins. Are these coins very old?
Carla asks the old man.
They're 300 years old, says the shopkeeper. They're very valuable.
Every coin in my shop is
valuable. A girl is working in the shop, too. She
looks at Carla. Carla smiles, but the girl
suddenly they hear a telephone in the room behind the
shop. The shopkeeper doesn't answer it for a
minute. Then he looks at the girl and she looks
at him. They don't speak, but Carla understands.
The shopkeeper doesn't speak, but he is saying to the
girl, watch these students.
Excuse me, he says to Carla and Pete, and he
goes into the back room.
Pete is looking at the stamps. Come and see these,
Carla, he says.
They're in South America. I want to start collecting them,
but Carla doesn't like the people in this shop. They
aren't very friendly, and she wants to look at the
city.
They're very expensive, she says. Let's go, Pete. The girl
watches them, and then she smiles.
She's happy because we're going, Carla thinks. But why?
Pete and Carla go back into the big streets with
the tourists. Carla is happy now because they are
not in the shop, but the sun is hot and
Pete wants a drink. Let's go to a cafe near
the abbey,
he says. He wanted the stamps from South America, but
he doesn't say this.
There are tables outside the cafe. Pete and Carla sit
down. There are a lot of people in the cafe.
Can we go into the abbey next? Carla asks. He
wants the stamps from South America,
she thinks. But they're very expensive.
I want a drink first, Pete says. Okay, Carla says,
and she smiles at him. Pete smiles at her too.
After a minute or two, they hear, hey, there you
are. Pete and Carla look up. It's the old man
in the shop.
What does he want? Pete says. I don't know, Carla
says, but he's angry. What's wrong?
The shopkeeper comes to the cafe. He is very angry.
Where are my coins? He says, your coins,
Carla says. I don't understand. They're missing, the shopkeeper says.
Did you steal them?
Carla and Pete are surprised. The people at the tables
near them are surprised too.
They watch the two friends and the old man. Stealing
your coins? No, Carla says. Her face is hot
red. We didn't steal any coins or stamps, Pete says.
What are you saying? He is angry now.
You've got my coins, the shopkeeper says. The coins are
missing and this isn't the first time.
Some coins were missing last week. Some students have been
too, I think.
Do you see the students with the coins? Pete says.
The old man doesn't answer.
A policeman walks down the streets to the cafe. He
watches Carla and Pete and the shopkeeper.
Then he says, what's wrong? These two students came into
my shop, the shopkeeper says.
I went to the back room and answered the telephone.
Then I went back into the shop.
Some valuable coins were missing and the two students were
not in the shop.
The policeman looks at Pete and Carla. What do you
say? He asks.
Yes, we went into the shop, Carla says. We wanted
to look at the stamps.
But we didn't steal them, Pete says. And we didn't
take the coins.
Were there many people in the shop? The policeman asks.
No, the shopkeeper says.
Only these two students and Tracy. Tracy works in my
shop. She doesn't steal coins.
How do you know? asks the policeman.
I looked in her bag and pockets today, the shopkeeper
says. And I looked in them last week.
You can look in my bag, Carla says. And you
can look in my pockets, Pete says.
The shopkeeper is surprised. Can I? He says. Please look.
Please look now, Carla says. We didn't steal any coins.
She gives him her bag.
The shopkeeper looks in Carla's bag and in their pockets.
The people at the tables near them
watch him. Is he going to find the coins, they
think? But he finds no coins or stamps.
We didn't steal the coins, Pete says. And now you
know that.
I'm sorry, the shopkeeper says. I was wrong, but I
don't understand it. Where are the coins?
Then the old man goes back to his shop. He
isn't very happy, Pete says to the policeman.
Coins are very small, the policeman says. Perhaps they're in
the shop, but he can't see them.
Some young people start to play music. A girl plays
a flute.
Who didn't steal any coins? Carla says to the policeman.
I know, the policeman says.
Carla listens to the music. It is green sleeves.
Where did I hear that? She thinks. And then she
remembers the flute player near the coin and
stamp shop. He played that tune, she remembers. Pete is
watching her face.
What is it? He asks her. What's wrong?
I know now, she says. The missing coins. I know
the answer.
Do you? Pete says. What is it? Come with me,
she says to Pete and the policeman.
We're going to find the man with the flute. Which
man? The policeman says.
He plays in the street near the old man's shop,
Pete says.
Then Carla, Pete and the policeman run to the stamp
and coin shop.
Hey, you, Carla says. The flute player is going to
walk away, but the policeman stops him.
Wait, the policeman says. We want to speak to you.
The man wants to run now. I'm going home, he
says. No, wait, the policeman says.
He looks at Carla. You have the coins, Carla says
to the flute player.
No, the man says. He starts to run away, but
the policeman stops him again.
How did he do it? He tasks Carla. It was
the girl in the shop, Carla says.
We looked at some stamps, remember? And the shopkeeper was
on the telephone in the room at the back.
But how did the flute player get the coins? The
policeman asks.
Yes, Pete says. I don't understand. He was outside the
window, Carla says.
The girl went to the window with the coins. But
there were people in the street, Pete says.
Yes, perhaps people watched her, Carla says. But the coins
went into the flute player's hat.
The coins were valuable, but the people in the street
didn't know that.
The girl and the flute player were very clever, Pete
says.
But now they're coming with me to the police station,
the policeman says.
He takes the coins from the flute player.
After some time, a police car arrives.
It takes the girl and the flute player to the
police station.
Thank you, the shopkeeper says to Carla. The coins are
valuable. I want to say thank you.
What can I give you? Carla smiles.
Give Pete the stamps from South America, she says.
Then he can start his stamp collecting today.
Pete gives her a big smile.
Thanks, Carla, he says. I love you.